.TH WEBPCREATE 1 "August 2025" "webpCreate 1.0" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
webpCreate \- Batch convert images to WebP with resizing, EXIF preservation, multi-threading, and organization.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B webpCreate
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIDIRECTORY\fR ...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBwebpCreate\fR is a Zsh-based batch image conversion tool for macOS 10.15+ that:
.IP \[bu] 2
Converts JPEG, PNG, and HEIC to WebP (optionally also keeps JPEG copies).
.IP \[bu]
Preserves EXIF orientation metadata, or warns/ignores as specified.
.IP \[bu]
Optionally resizes images to a maximum dimension.
.IP \[bu]
Organizes originals and outputs into separate subdirectories.
.IP \[bu]
Provides per-directory savings reports.
.IP \[bu]
Includes dry-run and debug modes for safe testing.

If no directories are specified, the current working directory is processed. Multiple directories can be given; use \fB--parallel\fR to process them concurrently.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
Display a brief help message and exit.

.TP
.BR -q " " \fIQ\fR ", " --quality " " \fIQ\fR
Set WebP quality (0–100). Default: 80.

.TP
.BR --maxd " " \fIN\fR
Resize images so their longest side is \fIN\fR pixels or less. Skips prompt.

.TP
.B --lossless
Use lossless WebP compression.

.TP
.BR --mt ", " --multithread
Enable multi-threaded encoding via \fBcwebp -mt\fR.

.TP
.BR --cwoption " " \fIOPT\fR
Pass arbitrary options directly to \fBcwebp\fR (e.g., \fB-af\fR, \fB-z 9\fR).

.TP
.BR --parallel ", " -P
Process multiple directories in parallel.

.TP
.B --jpeg
Also create JPEG copies alongside WebP outputs.

.TP
.BR -o " " \fIMODE\fR ", " --orientation " " \fIMODE\fR
Set orientation handling mode:
.RS
.IP detect 8
(default) Automatically detect and correct orientation from EXIF and macOS metadata.
.IP warn
Warn about orientation issues without changing the image data.
.IP ignore
Skip orientation handling and preserve raw pixel layout.
.RE

.TP
.B --no-meta
Skip embedding "Created by webpCreate" metadata in output files.

.TP
.B --dryrun
Simulate the conversion without creating, overwriting, or moving files.

.TP
.B --debug
Enable verbose debug logging for troubleshooting.

.TP
.B --overwrite
Automatically overwrite conflicting files without prompting.

.TP
.B --skip
Automatically skip files that would cause a name conflict.

.TP
.B --increment
Automatically rename conflicting files by appending a counter.

.SH EXAMPLES
Process current directory with defaults:
.RS
webpCreate
.RE

Convert with quality 75 and resize to 1200px:
.RS
webpCreate -q 75 --maxd 1200 ~/Pictures
.RE

Lossless, multi-threaded, parallel processing:
.RS
webpCreate --lossless --mt --parallel dirA dirB dirC
.RE

Create both WebP and JPEG:
.RS
webpCreate --jpeg -q 85 ./assets
.RE

Ignore orientation metadata:
.RS
webpCreate -o ignore ./photos
.RE

Preview without changes:
.RS
webpCreate --dryrun ./images
.RE

Debug with verbose output:
.RS
webpCreate --debug --jpeg ~/Pictures
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cwebp (1),
.BR ffmpeg (1),
.BR sips (1),
.BR exiftool (1)

Project page:
.UR https://github.com/chachwick/webpCreate
.UE

.SH AUTHOR
Chadwick Self <https://github.com/chachwick>

Licensed under the MIT License.
